
# Automation and Labour

For the writing assignment this week, we'll dive deeper into the common claim
that the rise of AI will necessarily lead to massive unemployment of
low-skilled labourers, who are easily replaced by machines. Start by reading
this introductory *Medium* article on the topic:

[Artificial Intelligence and the rise of economic inequality](https://towardsdatascience.com/artificial-intelligence-and-the-rise-of-economic-inequality-b9d81be58bec)

In my personal opinion, the view outlined in this article is a little
pessimistic. However, it is common view when discussing the impact of
automation on labour and so it is useful to understand it.

Suri (the author of the article) gives two possible counters to his own
pessimistic view, neither of which I think he really does justice.

### 1. Universal Basic Income

The first and most common reply is implementing a Universal Basic Income as a
solution for those unemployed by the improvements in automation. He counters
this solution with quotes from Collins on "fiscal crisis of the state" and this
"making capitalism unsustainable".  Neither of these really cut to the core of
the many underlying problems a UBI would potentially solve, and also depends on
the assumption that capitalism is the only viable economic system.

However, I think countering these arguments really just changes the subject to
the advantages and disadvantges of UBI. Implementing a UBI would just a direct
effect eliminate this potential problem of unemployment due to automation,
but that is not the only reason to argue for a UBI. Considering pro's and con's
of a UBI is an interesting political en economic exercise, but really not the
focus of this writing assignment.

### 2. Polanyis' argument?

The other reply seems to be that it might be overstated that AI will cause mass
unemployment. It is supported with a single quote about AI and "the ability to
communicate with other people and explain its decision-making process", which
really tells us very little about why exactly that might be overstated.

So, next we'll read the article where this quote comes from, to better
understand the possibility that this threat might be overstated:

[Polanyiâ€™s Paradox and the Shape of Employment Growth](polanyis_paradox_2014.pdf)

It is a very interesting article, but quite long and a little dense in places.
You should definitely read sections III and VI, and the conclusion of the
article. All other sections are optional, if you're interested.

## Human and AI cooperations?


