# Chinese Room

This week we’ll revisit the philosophical question from the written assignment
of the first week; “Can machines think?”, and try to relate it to the new
machine learning concepts you’ve learned in the past few weeks. To start, you
should read Searle’s article describing the Chinese Room thought experiment,
which is a classic text on the question.

[J.R. Searle - Minds, brains, and programs](chinese_room.pdf)

## Understanding Sentiment

Searle never really gives an explicit definition of understanding, but he does
give a lot of hypothetical examples using people and machines, where he argues
whether or not, in that specific example, these can be said to have clear
understanding of the information they are processing. For this written
assignment you'll be asked to make the same type of classification (i.e. does
or does not have understanding) for the examples listed below, and to motivate
these classifications using your own arguments.

1. Start your written assignment by giving your own opinion on Searle's article
and his classifications of understanding. Did Searle convince you with his
arguments regarding the capacity for a computer program to produce
understanding? Are there any examples Searle classifies as understanding / not
understanding you disagree with?

2. Consider the Naive Bayes sentiment analysis program you built in the
programming notebook this week as new example potentially capable of
understanding. Would you argue this program has understanding of the
sentiment of the tweets it processes? Why or why not?
 
3. Next, consider the example where you yourself are reading tweets and
classifying the sentiment of each tweet. Additionally, consider the case where
you are not trying to classify based on your own understanding of sentiment,
but instead are trying to reproduce the specific notion of sentiment as encoded
in data set from the assignment, containing 1.6 million sample tweets labeled
as having a positive or negative sentiment. For both these examples, argue
whether or not they would produce understanding.

4. Finally, consider a combined system, consisting of the Naive Bayes sentiment
analysis program and yourself, the programmer who wrote it. For this combined
system, you are able to interact with and inspect any intermediate results and
probabilities produced by the program when it makes a prediction for a new
tweet, i.e. you can access all of the data and not just the resulting
prediction. Argue whether or not you think this combined system would be able
to produce understanding when trying to reproduce specific notion of sentiment
as encoded in labeled data set from the assignment.

*Note:* Some of these exampes might be hard to classify as having understanding
or not, and there isn't an obvious right or wrong answer for these question.
What is most important, is that your answers show your understand the concepts
from Searle's paper and how they might apply to different solutions for the
problem of sentiment analysis.

