# Elements of AI

This week we will continue with the chapters 4, 5, and 6 of the [Elements of AI](https://www.elementsofai.com/)
course, completing the introduction to AI.

Read the material in these three chapters and complete the corresponding
exercises. For the last exercise (exercise 25 in chapter 6.3), you'll also need
to submit your answer as part of your writing assignment this week, so should
save that answer separately in a text file.

### Assignment

Once you've completed the 3 chapters, answer the following questions:

(i) Chapters 4 and 5 discuss a wide range of techniques used in AI. Describe
the following two techniques briefly in your own words; linear regression and
GANs (Generative Adversarial Networks). Your descriptions do not need to
contain any technical detail, but should just briefly convey the general idea
behind the technique.

(ii) Now have a look at your written assignment for module 1, where you
discussed one of objections to the question “Can machines think?”, as covered
by Turing in his paper. For each technique you described in (i), argue to which
degree you think that that AI technique is hindered by, (potentially) solves,
or evades, any objections to actually “think” for itself. You can choose the
same objection from Turing you discussed last week, or choose a different
objection, as long as it clear which objection you are trying to apply to the
two techniques.

(iii) Finally, chapter 6 of the Elements of AI course describes four societal
implications of AI. Choose one of these implications and, for each technique
you described in (i), discuss whether you think the technique is likely to
strengthen this implication or not. You may also include your answers to (ii)
in this discussion, if these answers are relevant to the implication you chose. 

Your answers to these questions should be combined in a single text of around
500 words. The minimum requirement for the assignment is 350 words.

#### Peer review

You are encouraged to swap writing assignments with other students, read them
and share feedback with each other, both on the contents of the arguments and
the structure of the writing. Writing a good text can be difficult and,
especially after you rewrote something a couple of times, other people will
generally see improvements that you can't spot anymore. So, make use of that
and help each other out by exchanging feedback.

*Note:* This means swapping assignments with a student from the class, not
the peer review feature on the *Elements of AI* website.


