
# Exam Material

The material for the exam consists of everything covered in the theory videos
and programming notebooks for this course. The focus for the exam will be on
understanding of the material, not memorization of equations. This means you
will not be asked to the reproduce equations for some algorithm, but you might
be given an equation and asked to explain what all the terms are and how they
relate to some piece of machine learning theory. 

This means the theory pages from the SOWISO and the articles from the writing
assignment are *not* part of the exam material, in the sense that you will not
be asked about any of these directly. However, you are expected to be able to
relate these concepts back to the machine learning theory, as described above.
This means that you won't be asked to take a derivative of some function, but
you might be asked to explain what the gradient is and how it can be used to
optimize the cost function of some model. 

## Covered algorithms

* Supervised Learning - Classification
    * k-Nearest Neighbours
    * Naive Bayes
* Supervised Learning - Regression
    * Univariate Linear
    * Multivariate Linear
    * Univariate Polynomial
* Unsupervised Learning - Clustering
    * k-Means

## Allowed tools

For the exam you are allowed to use a pen, pencils, eraser and ruler, which
will be useful for questions where you are asked to draw a graph or some part
of a data set. In addition, you are allowed to use a basic calculator (so not a
graphical one) for any computations yyou might need to do. However, the any
calculations you'll need to by hand will be quite simple, so in principle a
calculator should not be needed for these.

## Additional material

The hundred-page machine learning book, by Andriy Burkov, is a compact 100 page
introduction to machine learning. It is a little more mathematical than most of
the material in this course, but it does give a nice complete overview. It
includes the general notion of machine learning, required mathematical tools
and some of the algorithms, so the book might be useful to use as a reference.

Burkov offers the first 34 pages of the book online for free. We've actually
covered most of the topics in these first 34 pages, although some, like
*Logistic Regression* and *Decision Trees* will be **Introduction to
Machine Learning 2** material, so you can just skip these topics. The sample
version of the book can be found below:

[The hundred-page machine learning book (sample)](data/theMLbook-sample.pdf)

**This book is an optional additonal reference, and not part of the exam material.**

If you like the way the material is presented in this book and would like to
read the remaining 66 pages, you can buy the book
[here](http://themlbook.com/).
