## Working on the programming notebooks

For this notebook you’ll build the k-NN classifier yourself, which will be our
first actual machine learning algorithm. The notebook from the first module was
quite small, as you were still learning the basics of programming, but the
notebook for this module will already require writing quite a bit more code.

This means there will two different programming assignments, one for ML1 and
one for PDP, for which you’ll need to spread the workload this module. This can
be a bit challenging the first time, but is very doable if you keep a few
things in mind. The most important thing is to spread your time effectively
between the assignments, and to maximize the questions you can ask during the
hours there is practical assistance available. Below are a few tips on how to
best to approach this as a new student:

1. If you are stuck with a problem, set a timer and try to solve it yourself
for 20 minutes. If you did not make any progress after 20 minutes, write
down what you were doing and go do something else. Spending hours trying to
find a bug is not a very effective way to spend your time, so in that case it
would be better to just ask a question.

2. When you have a question written down, ask a TA for help, or wait until you
can ask your question the next day. In the mean time, switch to working on
the other course; so switch from ML1 to PDP or the other way around, while you
are waiting for help with your question. Sometimes it can take a while before
you can get help, so switching to the other course is much more effective than
sitting around and just waiting to get unstuck.

3. If you have a question written down for both ML1 and PDP, then you can
always already start with the writing assignment for the module. The writing
assignment will usually not directly depend on any other part of the module,
and thus can be done at any time during the week. If you are stuck on a bug, it
can also be very helpful to just do something completely different than
programming for a bit.

4. Keep a close on eye on the schedule for the module, and try to keep up with
it every day. This schedule is specifically designed to to help spread the
programming workload out across the week, and to leave some room to debug any
difficult parts. Try to treat the material for the days as a small daily
deadlines, instead of one big deadline at the end of the module.

5. If you’re having trouble keeping up with the schedule, please contact us and
let us know. If you didn’t manage to finish one part of the daily schedule
and you want to ask a question about that the next day, then this isn’t an
issue, but if you didn’t manage to do a large part of the material for the day,
or are more than one day behind, please send us an email at minorai@mprog.nl.
We can take a look at what you still need to do together, and see if we can
offer you any addition resources to help with this.

