
# Turing Test

This week we'll read Alan Turing's original article from 1950 describing what
later became known simply as *the Turing Test* (although he himself calls it
*the Imitation Game* here). It is a classic piece of computer science history
and gives us a picture of how such a seminal figure thought about the question
*"Can machines think?"* now 70 years ago. The article has some very dated ideas
(including on gender and race), but also some almost prophetic considerations
on how machines might be capable of learning some time in the future. As long
as you keep in mind at what time it was written, it makes for a very
interesting read.

[A.M. Turing - Computing Machinery and Intelligence](turing_test.pdf)

You may skip sections 4 and 5 while reading, as they are a bit technical and
not entirely relevant for the argument made. They (briefly) state that a
digital computer can be used be used to simulate any other machine or computer,
and therefore considering only digital computers is actually sufficient to
answer the question for machines in general. This is related to other famous
computer science concepts such as *Turing Machines* and *Turing
Completeness*, both obviously also invented by Turing. These are also very
interesting topics, but might be hard to grasp with only a couple of paragraphs
devoted to them, so perhaps are best studied another time. You may also skip
section 7, as it is mostly speculation on how machines might be able to learn,
which is a topic we'll cover extensively in the coming weeks (with slightly
more current information).

### Assignment

Once you've read the article, choose one of the 9 objections listed in section
6, whichever you think provides the most convincing argument. Turing gives a
description and a counterargument for each of these objections. Write your own
reply to Turing for the objection you chose, responding to his description
and/or counterargument. Argue why you think this objection could in fact be a
valid objection to using the Imitation Game as a test to determine if a machine
can think.

Your reply should be around 500 to 600 words, but does not have to fall exactly
in this range. Most important is if you've used enough words to make a cohesive
and clear argument for your point of view. As the limit, less than 400 words
words will usually be considered too few and more than 800 to be too many.

### Submission

For the written portion this week, you should submit your answer to exercise 4
from *Elements of AI* and your reply to Turing defending one of the objections
he mentions.

