
# Turing Test

This week we'll read Alan Turing's original article from 1950 describing what
later became known simply as *the Turing Test* (although he himself calls it
*the Imitation Game* here). It is a classic piece of computer science history
and gives us a picture of how such a seminal figure thought about the question
*"Can machines think?"* now 70 years ago. The article has some very dated ideas
(including on gender and race), but also some almost prophetic considerations
on how machines might be capable of learning some time in the future. As long
as you keep in mind at what time it was written, it makes for a very
interesting read.

[A.M. Turing - Computing Machinery and Intelligence](turing_test.pdf)

You may skip sections 4 and 5 while reading, as they are a bit technical and
not entirely relevant for the argument made. They (briefly) state that a
digital computer can be used to simulate any other machine or computer, and
therefore considering only digital computers is actually sufficient to answer
the question for machines in general. This is related to other famous computer
science concepts such as *Turing Machines* and *Turing Completeness*, both
obviously also invented by Turing. These are also very interesting topics, but
might be hard to grasp with only a couple of paragraphs devoted to them, so
perhaps are best studied another time. You may also skip section 7, as it is
mostly speculation on how machines might be able to learn, which is a topic
we'll cover extensively in the coming weeks (with slightly more current
information).

### Assignment

Once you've read the article, choose one of the 9 objections listed in section
6, whichever you think provides the most convincing argument. For this written
assignment, you'll need to argue whether or not you ended up agreeing with
Turing's main question "Can machines think?", by either further countering or
agreeing with, your chosen objection.

Turing gives a description and a counterargument for each of these objections.
Write your own reply to Turing for the objection you chose, responding to his
description and/or counterargument for that objection. If you disagree with
Turing, then argue why you think this objection could in fact still be a valid
objection to the question "Can machines think?" and reply to Turing's provided
counterargument. If you agree with Turing, then explain why you think this most
convincing argument still does not prevent machines from thinking and expand
upon the provided counterargument.

Your assignment should be long enough to make a clear and cohesive argument for
your point of view. In general, this tends to correspond with around 500 words.
The minimum requirement for the assignment is 350 words.

#### Peer review

You are encouraged to swap writing assignments with other students, read them
and share feedback with each other, both on the contents of the arguments and
the structure of the writing. Writing a good text can be difficult and,
especially after you rewrote something a couple of times, other people will
generally see improvements that you can't spot anymore. So, make use of that
and help each other out by exchanging feedback.

*Note:* This means swapping assignments with a student from the class, not
the peer review feature on the *Elements of AI* website.

### Submission

For the written portion this week, you should submit your answer to exercise 4
from *Elements of AI* and your reply to Turing on the objections he mentions
to the question "Can machines think?".
